README.rst, before:

rpki-rtr-client
===============

Introduction
------------

A simple client-side implementation of the RTR
`RFC8210 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8210>`__ protocol in Python.
See Cloudflare's blogs on
`RPKI <https://blog.cloudflare.com/tag/rpki/>`__ for more open source
RPKI code.

Installation
------------

Presently the code is easiest to install using pip.

::

       $ pip3 install rpki-rtr-client
       $ rtr_client

The `pytricia <https://pypi.org/project/pytricia/>`__ package is used
for storing a routing table.

Usage
-----

Cloudflare provides an open RTR
server at ``rtr.rpki.cloudflare.com`` port ``8282`` based on
Cloudflare's `GoRTR <https://github.com/cloudflare/gortr>`__ open source
RTR server.

Usage is via the ``--help`` argument.

::

       $ rtr_client --help
       usage: rtr_client [-H|--help] [-V|--version] [-v|--verbose] [-h HOSTNAME|--host=HOSTNAME] [-p PORTNUMBER|--port=PORTNUMBER] [-s SERIALNUMBER|--serial=SERIALNUMER] [-t SECONDS|--timeout=SECONDS] [-d|--dump]

The Cloudflare open RTR server default hostname and port are compiled
into the source code. You can specify your own host and port via the
command line ``-h|--host`` and ``-p|--port`` arguments.

::

       $ rtr_client --host rtr.rpki.cloudflare.com --port 8282
       ...
       ^C
       $

A modocom of debug information is available to show the serial number
and the progress of accepting announce/widthdraw valid ROAs. The code
will always show the progress of serial numbers plus the number of valid
ROAs associated with that serial number.

::

       DUMP ROUTES: serial=133 announce=130401/withdraw=0
       NEW SERIAL 0->133

As the protocol continues to sync, the messages show progress on the
routing list.

::

       DUMP ROUTES: serial=381 announce=18/withdraw=2
       NEW SERIAL 380->381

The ``.`` debug message simply mean that PDUs have been transfered
between RTR server and RTR client.

Data Files
----------

There's a data directory created with JSON files of every serial numbers
worth of ROA data. The directory is sorted by ``YYYY-MM`` and the files
include the full date (in UTC).

::

       $ ls -lt data/
       total 0
       drwxr-xr-x  7 martin martin  224 Feb 11 09:36 2020-02
       $

       $ ls -lt data/2020-02
       total 21592
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin  5520676 Feb 16 18:22 2020-02-17-022209.routes.00000365.json
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin  5520676 Feb 16 18:42 2020-02-17-024242.routes.00000838.json
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin      412 Feb 16 19:56 2020-02-17-035645.routes.00000841.json
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin      272 Feb 16 20:16 2020-02-17-041647.routes.00000842.json
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin      643 Feb 16 20:36 2020-02-17-043649.routes.00000843.json
       $

You can review those files for how many RTR announce/withdraw ROAs were
processed.

::

       $ for f in data/2020-02/*.json ; do echo "$f `jq -r '.routes.announce[]|.ip' < $f | wc -l` `jq -r '.routes.withdraw[]|.ip' < $f | wc -l`" ; done
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-022209.routes.00000365.json   128483        0
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-024242.routes.00000838.json   128483        0
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-035645.routes.00000841.json        3        6
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-041647.routes.00000842.json        5        0
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-043649.routes.00000843.json        9        5
       $

You can list the ROAs. A ``null`` mean that no MaxLen has been specified
in the ROA.

::

       $ jq -r '.routes.announce[]|.ip,.asn,.maxlen' data/2020-02/*0838.json | paste - - - | sort -V | head
       1.0.0.0/24      13335   null
       1.1.1.0/24      13335   null
       1.9.0.0/16      4788    24
       1.9.12.0/24     65037   null
       1.9.21.0/24     24514   null
       1.9.23.0/24     65120   null
       1.9.31.0/24     65077   null
       1.9.65.0/24     24514   null
       1.34.0.0/15     3462    24
       1.36.0.0/16     4760    null
       $

Additionally, the full list of valid ROAs is dumped into
``data/routingtable.json`` which can then be used the ``show`` command:

::

       $ rtr_client/rtr_show.py 1.37.0.0/16 112.198.0.0/16
       ROUTE            ROA              MaxLen ASN
       1.37.0.0/16      1.37.0.0/16         /17 AS4775
       ROUTE            ROA              MaxLen ASN
       112.198.0.0/16   112.198.0.0/16      /24 AS4775
       $

The ``-l`` argument will show add more specific ROAs.

The code can also dump the raw binary protocol and then replay that data
to debug the protocol with the ``-d|--dump`` argument. This generates a
``data/__________-raw-data.bin`` file. The ``file_process.py`` command
will process that file.

Changelog
---------

-  This is the first release and while it works, it is not ready for
   prime time
-  Directory format updated to split by YYYY-MM in case it gets big
   (plus the serial number may not be sequential)
-  Moved from 3rd party ``netaddr`` package to Python's ``ipaddress``
   data type
-  All internal cidr's are stored as ``ipaddress`` types and JSON
   processing now handles that type correctly
-  Added valid route table and show command
-  Renamed show.py to rtr\_show.py
-  moved code to rtr\_client folder
-  Added -V/--version flags
-  Added support for tracking session\_id's
-  Fixed route dump duplication after session restart
-  First pass at pypi packaging
-  Cleaned up route processing
-  Timestamp added to major debug messages
-  Connect class does all the socket processing now - just cleaner that
   way

License
-------

Licensed under the BSD 3 License. See `LICENSE.txt <LICENSE.txt>`__
file.

Commit message:

Add 'lookup' method to check whether a given prefix (or a covering prefix with matching maxlen) is announced in RPKI

README.rst, after:

rpki-rtr-client
===============

# JvB note on added rtr_routes.lookup

Added for a use case where the client builds the table in memory, and another
process uses its cache to lookup prefixes.

RPKI allows the specification of 'maxlen', for example 1.0.0.0/22 with maxlen 24
also allows 1.0.0.0/23 and 1.0.100.0/24. The lookup takes this into account

Introduction
------------

A simple client-side implementation of the RTR
`RFC8210 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8210>`__ protocol in Python.
See Cloudflare's blogs on
`RPKI <https://blog.cloudflare.com/tag/rpki/>`__ for more open source
RPKI code.

Installation
------------

Presently the code is easiest to install using pip.

::

       $ pip3 install rpki-rtr-client
       $ rtr_client

The `pytricia <https://pypi.org/project/pytricia/>`__ package is used
for storing a routing table.

Usage
-----

Cloudflare provides an open RTR
server at ``rtr.rpki.cloudflare.com`` port ``8282`` based on
Cloudflare's `GoRTR <https://github.com/cloudflare/gortr>`__ open source
RTR server.

Usage is via the ``--help`` argument.

::

       $ rtr_client --help
       usage: rtr_client [-H|--help] [-V|--version] [-v|--verbose] [-h HOSTNAME|--host=HOSTNAME] [-p PORTNUMBER|--port=PORTNUMBER] [-s SERIALNUMBER|--serial=SERIALNUMER] [-t SECONDS|--timeout=SECONDS] [-d|--dump]

The Cloudflare open RTR server default hostname and port are compiled
into the source code. You can specify your own host and port via the
command line ``-h|--host`` and ``-p|--port`` arguments.

::

       $ rtr_client --host rtr.rpki.cloudflare.com --port 8282
       ...
       ^C
       $

A modocom of debug information is available to show the serial number
and the progress of accepting announce/widthdraw valid ROAs. The code
will always show the progress of serial numbers plus the number of valid
ROAs associated with that serial number.

::

       DUMP ROUTES: serial=133 announce=130401/withdraw=0
       NEW SERIAL 0->133

As the protocol continues to sync, the messages show progress on the
routing list.

::

       DUMP ROUTES: serial=381 announce=18/withdraw=2
       NEW SERIAL 380->381

The ``.`` debug message simply mean that PDUs have been transfered
between RTR server and RTR client.

Data Files
----------

There's a data directory created with JSON files of every serial numbers
worth of ROA data. The directory is sorted by ``YYYY-MM`` and the files
include the full date (in UTC).

::

       $ ls -lt data/
       total 0
       drwxr-xr-x  7 martin martin  224 Feb 11 09:36 2020-02
       $

       $ ls -lt data/2020-02
       total 21592
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin  5520676 Feb 16 18:22 2020-02-17-022209.routes.00000365.json
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin  5520676 Feb 16 18:42 2020-02-17-024242.routes.00000838.json
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin      412 Feb 16 19:56 2020-02-17-035645.routes.00000841.json
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin      272 Feb 16 20:16 2020-02-17-041647.routes.00000842.json
       -rw-r--r--  1 martin martin      643 Feb 16 20:36 2020-02-17-043649.routes.00000843.json
       $

You can review those files for how many RTR announce/withdraw ROAs were
processed.

::

       $ for f in data/2020-02/*.json ; do echo "$f `jq -r '.routes.announce[]|.ip' < $f | wc -l` `jq -r '.routes.withdraw[]|.ip' < $f | wc -l`" ; done
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-022209.routes.00000365.json   128483        0
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-024242.routes.00000838.json   128483        0
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-035645.routes.00000841.json        3        6
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-041647.routes.00000842.json        5        0
       data/2020-02/2020-02-17-043649.routes.00000843.json        9        5
       $

You can list the ROAs. A ``null`` mean that no MaxLen has been specified
in the ROA.

::

       $ jq -r '.routes.announce[]|.ip,.asn,.maxlen' data/2020-02/*0838.json | paste - - - | sort -V | head
       1.0.0.0/24      13335   null
       1.1.1.0/24      13335   null
       1.9.0.0/16      4788    24
       1.9.12.0/24     65037   null
       1.9.21.0/24     24514   null
       1.9.23.0/24     65120   null
       1.9.31.0/24     65077   null
       1.9.65.0/24     24514   null
       1.34.0.0/15     3462    24
       1.36.0.0/16     4760    null
       $

Additionally, the full list of valid ROAs is dumped into
``data/routingtable.json`` which can then be used the ``show`` command:

::

       $ rtr_client/rtr_show.py 1.37.0.0/16 112.198.0.0/16
       ROUTE            ROA              MaxLen ASN
       1.37.0.0/16      1.37.0.0/16         /17 AS4775
       ROUTE            ROA              MaxLen ASN
       112.198.0.0/16   112.198.0.0/16      /24 AS4775
       $

The ``-l`` argument will show add more specific ROAs.

The code can also dump the raw binary protocol and then replay that data
to debug the protocol with the ``-d|--dump`` argument. This generates a
``data/__________-raw-data.bin`` file. The ``file_process.py`` command
will process that file.

Changelog
---------

-  This is the first release and while it works, it is not ready for
   prime time
-  Directory format updated to split by YYYY-MM in case it gets big
   (plus the serial number may not be sequential)
-  Moved from 3rd party ``netaddr`` package to Python's ``ipaddress``
   data type
-  All internal cidr's are stored as ``ipaddress`` types and JSON
   processing now handles that type correctly
-  Added valid route table and show command
-  Renamed show.py to rtr\_show.py
-  moved code to rtr\_client folder
-  Added -V/--version flags
-  Added support for tracking session\_id's
-  Fixed route dump duplication after session restart
-  First pass at pypi packaging
-  Cleaned up route processing
-  Timestamp added to major debug messages
-  Connect class does all the socket processing now - just cleaner that
   way

License
-------

Licensed under the BSD 3 License. See `LICENSE.txt <LICENSE.txt>`__
file.
